# Optimal piano fingering for simple melodies

2014
片手単旋律を対象に、可能な運指からなる木構造を構成しコストの小さい運指列を探索
Parncutt(1997)の手法にフレーズを区切るルールを追加

## 対象

> The main goal of the project was to create an implementation that
automatically generates optimal piano fingerings from the musical score that are
close enough to what a professional pianist would choose. The pieces are limited
to monophonic melodies

## 手法

> Parncutt(1997)1 discussed using 12 rules based on the physical
constraints of the hand to value the difficulty of each node in the fingering
tree

> Yuichiro (2010)2 used a Hidden Markov Model (HMM)-based algorithm for
automatic decision of optimal piano fingering. They represent the forms of
hands and fingers as the hidden states in HMM and model the sequence of notes
from given piece as outputs associated with HMM transition. 

> A reach table (see Table 2.2) is used to score the fingering by the constraint
rules.

>> The largest and smallest span which can be used in
practice (MaxPrac & MinPrac)

>> The largest and smallest comfortable span (MaxComf & MinComf) 

>> The relaxed spans (MaxRel & MinRel) describes the maximum and minimum
reach of finger pairs in a relaxed state.

1 - 2は最大距離10、1 - 2 の指超えでは最大-5
負担が小さい範囲では、最大距離8、指超えでは-3
自然な配置では、距離5～1
というReach tableの読み方

> Both Parncutt et al(1997) and Yonebayashi et al (2010) treated input
melodies without pauses (consecutive sequence of notes), which might have
influence on the optimal fingering generated by algorithms

> The algorithm described in Parncutt et al.(1997) was implemented in Java.
Instead of treating input melodies as uninterrupted, consecutive sequences
of notes, pauses were into consideration and an extra rule for pauses was
added.

> 3.2.13 Extra Rule for Pause
Assign one point for each pause where the interval between the note prior and
the note after the pause either is less than MinRel or larger than MaxRel. 
...
A pause indicates a natural
end of a previous phrase and the start of a new. 

## 参考

An ergonomic model of keyboard fingering for melodic fragments
1997

手の自然な動きを考慮した隠れ変数付き隠れマルコフモデルに基づくピアノ運指決定
2010